Migrate foundation website content (#1019)
graphql/graphql.github.io: src/content/community/Community-Developers.md

---
title: GraphQL for Developers
layout: docs
category: Community
permalink: /community/developers/
next: /community/project-resources/
sublinks: How GraphQL is developed,Participating in development,GraphQL project governance
---

The following resources are intended to describe how GraphQL development processes work, how to get involved, and where to get help.

## Essential links

* The [GraphQL Specification](https://spec.graphql.org)
* GraphQL [reference implementations and tools](/code/)
* The official [GraphQL GitHub org](https://github.com/graphql)
* The official [GraphQL Slack](https://slack.graphql.org)
* Instructions on how to sign the [GraphQL Specification Membership Agreement](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/tree/HEAD/membership)
* The [GraphQL project calendar](https://calendar.graphql.org)

> * Meeting replays on the [GraphQL YouTube channel](https://youtube.graphql.org)

Reviewer: Handy redirect! :+1:

## How GraphQL is developed

At its core, the GraphQL project is organized around the [specification](https://spec.graphql.org), with a wide variety of supporting implementations and tools.

GraphQL has an active and mutually beneficial relationship with its many implementations. The GraphQL specification is continuously evolving under the care of the [GraphQL Working Group](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg), which consists of GraphQL spec experts, contributors to public [reference implementations](/code/), and implementers. At any given time, GraphQL specification updates are a combination of anticipatory planning with documentation of patterns and behaviors that are already proven in production, sometimes at very large scale.

### Working groups

The GraphQL specification, sub-specifications, and official reference implementations are developed using the working group model. The working groups meet monthly or as-needed in order to review ideas and plan their work.

#### The GraphQL Working Group

> The [GraphQL Working Group](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg) is the main group that plans and implements changes to the [GraphQL specification](https://spec.graphql.org). It meets actively and is the default place for discussion for topics which do not have a separate breakout working group (e.g., input unions, graphql-over-http, etc).

Reviewer: The `e.g.` here is ambigous; it could imply that these topics don't have separate breakout working groups. I've clarified.

```suggestion
The [GraphQL Working Group](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg) is the main group that plans and implements changes to the [GraphQL specification](https://spec.graphql.org). It meets actively and is the default place for discussion for topics which do not have a separate breakout working group (breakout working groups include the [Input Union WG](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/main/rfcs/InputUnion.md) and the [GraphQL-over-HTTP WG](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-over-http)).
```

### Technical governance

The GraphQL project is a chartered under the [Joint Development Foundation](https://www.jointdevelopment.org/) (JDF). JDF is a part of the Linux Foundation family, and is an organization specifically dedicated to making open standards easier to manage.

The GraphQL specification, the GraphQL Working Group, and all other sub-working groups and implementations in the [GraphQL GitHub organization](https://github.com/graphql) are governed by the [GraphQL project charter](https://technical-charter.graphql.org).

The [Technical Steering Committee](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/blob/main/GraphQL-TSC.md), or TSC, is established in the [technical charter](https://technical-charter.graphql.org) as the top technical decision-making body. It consists of [representatives from the GraphQL technical community](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/blob/main/GraphQL-TSC.md#tsc-voting-members) and is responsible for overseeing specification and development work, and approving new releases. TSC members serve a two-year term.

### Financial and policy governance

> The [GraphQL Foundation](/foundation/) provides financial support for the GraphQL project. In keeping wiht best practices, the Foundation is a separate organization, which helps to ensure that technical decisions are made upon their own merit and independent of financial contributions. The GraphQL Foundation uses the funds raised through [membership dues](/foundation/join/) to support the work of the GraphQL Project through investments in infrastructure, coordination support services, developer grants, and mentorship programs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [GraphQL Foundation](/foundation/) provides financial support for the GraphQL project. In keeping with best practices, the Foundation is a separate organization, which helps to ensure that technical decisions are made upon their own merit and independent of financial contributions. The GraphQL Foundation uses the funds raised through [membership dues](/foundation/join/) to support the work of the GraphQL Project through investments in infrastructure, coordination support services, developer grants, and mentorship programs.
```
